---
layout: post
title:  "Day 47 | Issue central"
date:   2015-08-11 23:44:05
categories: week10
image: 
image-subtitle: 
---

All hell has broken loose. We've now started our final projects, in seemingly random groups of four (and one five) with widely varying competencies and levels of dedication.

Day 1 was pretty much a disaster. Based on our initial discussions and research, the partial absence of one team member and a general lack of excitement about the project theme we decided to completely change our project idea. It was good that these misgivings were out in the open early, and the win for the day was that when the three of us left for the day we had an idea we were excited about working on. There was a lot of uncertainty about how many team members we would have and therefore how much be could plan to achieve. Plus if we were to be a four, would the fourth member be happy to work on the new idea? Not a good start.

We decided to create a smartphone app for children that's based around the idea of an <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/I-Spy_(Michelin)">iSpy book</a> for the digital youth of today. It's aimed at tourists or daytrippers who have children with them and want to give them a fun, educational, game-based activity to do to prevent them getting cranky and ruining the whole outing. I think the idea has a lot of potential and it's interesting to be creating something for a different target market and on a mobile platform too. 

Days 1-3 are research, prototyping and design days. We're looking at Ionic and Cordova as our potential tools and I've been experimenting with a plugin that accesses the iPhone/Android camera. It's quite satisfying when it works, but terrible to debug since you actually have to upload the app to your phone to test the camera function, so there goes the option of using your usual debugging tools e.g. the blimmin console. David and I have been debugging by outputting objects and values all over the shop, to try and keep a track of what's doing what without a console. Natalia has used her Photoshop skills to create a design for the main view. We're back to a four now but we're a bit all over the place in terms of who's doing what and crucially whether everyone is on the same page after our lengthy discussions. Some things we disuss in detail seem to emerge completely different than agreed. I'm nervous about whether we can pull this project off, but if we do it will be a very satisfying achievement. 

Nat x
