---
layout: post
title:  "Day 25 | Week 5 learning plan"
date:   2015-07-10 18:17:34
categories: week5
image: 
image-subtitle: 
---

**Most Important Things I Learned:**

&bull; Hoisting<br>
&bull; API calls/JSON files<br>
&bull; CSS transitions<br>

**Things I Struggled With The Most:**

&bull; Google maps geolocation <br>
&bull; Working with Ruby and JavaScript at the same time. Working out what will be passed from the Ruby controller to the JS, and how! (jQuery $.get call which passes the return value of the controller get '/' method - for some reason it really confused me)


**Changes I Plan to Make Next Week:**

&bull; Try and think of a breakout idea that people would be interested in (perhaps something to do with animations e.g. CSS transitions and jQuery animate/hide&show etc)<br>
&bull; Work at home in the evenings. For some reason I don't seem to work that well after about 5:30 at Makers on non-yoga days but can be very productive after dinner at home.<br>
&bull; More blog posts! It seems to have dropped off a bit this week :(<br>


**Please add which project you'll be working on for lab week and who you'll be working with:**

Apollo byte

Team 1 - Extend Chitter

Natalie A
Nicola
Kirsten
Massi
Alex

**Other Experiences or General Feedback This Week:**

&bull; I much preferred the 1:30 stand up slot as I feel less time was wasted. Also it's really hard to get fully into meditation sessions (2 - 2:20) when you can hear your byte starting their standup next door!<br>
&bull; I enjoyed the seniors' graduation presentations, but I am also a bit scared now. It's made me realise that it's probably a good idea to start thinking of project ideas from now on.. Also, striking a balance between features and simplicity is going to be important in order to make something which works robustly in a short space of time<br>
&bull; I feel like we're now at the stage where we can make something complete, from the inside out. Looking forward to the makerthon and lab week projects to see how we do this in a group situation (I imagine it's pretty difficult!)

Nat x
